Support installing OSSM Console without a Kiali server present ("lite mode") (#1002)
kiali/kiali.io: content/en/docs/FAQ/ossmc.md

---
title: "OSSMC"
description: "Questions about the OpenShift Service Mesh Console plugin."
---

### What OSSMC features work without Kiali installed?

> When the OpenShift Service Mesh Console (OSSMC) plugin is installed but no Kiali server is connected to the plugin, the Service Mesh menu still provides **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** pages. Those pages list every Istio and Kiali custom resource on the cluster so you can navigate multiple mesh instances from the OpenShift Console. They do not require a Kiali server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the OpenShift Service Mesh Console (OSSMC) plugin is installed but no Kiali server is connected to the plugin, the Service Mesh menu still provides **Istios** and **Kialis** pages. Those pages list every Istio and Kiali custom resource on the cluster so you can navigate multiple mesh instances from the OpenShift Console. They do not require a Kiali server.
```

Pages that require a connected Kiali server (Overview, Traffic Graph, Mesh, Namespaces, Applications, Services, Workloads, Istio Config) and **Service Mesh** tabs on OpenShift resource detail pages need a connected and reachable Kiali instance.

See [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/) and [Connecting a Kiali instance to the console](/docs/installation/installation-guide/creating-updating-ossmconsole-cr/#connecting-a-kiali-instance-to-the-console).

### Why do I only see Kiali instances and Istio control planes in the Service Mesh menu?

> No Kiali server is currently connected to the OSSMC plugin, or OSSMC cannot reach the connected Kiali server. In that case, only **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** appear in the Service Mesh menu — which is enough to browse the mesh and Kiali inventory on the cluster. See [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No Kiali server is currently connected to the OSSMC plugin, or OSSMC cannot reach the connected Kiali server. In that case, only **Istios** and **Kialis** appear in the Service Mesh menu — which is enough to browse the mesh and Kiali inventory on the cluster. See [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).
```

To enable pages that require Kiali, install a Kiali server (if needed), then open **Service Mesh** → **Kiali instances**, select your Kiali instance, and click **Connect**. Alternatively, configure `spec.kiali` on the OSSMConsole CR. See [Connecting a Kiali instance to the console](/docs/installation/installation-guide/creating-updating-ossmconsole-cr/#connecting-a-kiali-instance-to-the-console).

If you recently connected a Kiali instance but those pages still do not appear, verify that the Kiali pod is running and that the OSSMConsole CR status shows a successful reconciliation, then refresh the OpenShift Console browser window.

### Why is the Istio control planes or Kiali instances list empty (or missing entries) even though I know they exist?

> The **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** pages only show custom resources your OpenShift user account has permission to read. If your account has namespace-scoped access rather than cluster-wide access to `istios.sailoperator.io` or `kialis.kiali.io`, instances in namespaces you cannot access will not appear. Ask your cluster administrator to grant `list`/`get` permission on the relevant custom resource, either cluster-wide or in the specific namespaces you need to see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Istios** and **Kialis** pages only show custom resources your OpenShift user account has permission to read. If your account has namespace-scoped access rather than cluster-wide access to `istios.sailoperator.io` or `kialis.kiali.io`, instances in namespaces you cannot access will not appear. Ask your cluster administrator to grant `list`/`get` permission on the relevant custom resource, either cluster-wide or in the specific namespaces you need to see.
```
